When someone visits our site in the browser, what is the magic that happens that shows our beautifully designed crafted site of ours. 

Step 1:
+++++++

Browser thinks what is this gibberish that this fool has typed in. I only understand IP's. What to do with this.
Can somebody help? Koi bacha lo mujhe. DNS will come to the rescue. 

Browser sends a UDP packet to the DNS server that the host is configured. Its literally saying oy DNS server is domain ka IP de. And 
DNS server does some magic and sends our Name Servers. To know more about DNS and stuff, start following vinnybsrinivasa. 

So, for this purpose we configured Route 53 which provides Name servers information for our domain name. Theek hai. So, we created a
hosted zone which will have name servers which have all other records that we add to our domain. So, you will get an IP address of one 
of the name server for the query to DNS server from your browser. 

Now, again browser sends another request to the name server asking for IP of the original domain that user typed in by the user. Now, 
if the name server finds what the user is asking for, it sends the IP back. In our case, we are pointing to ALB which is in public subnet,
so the name server will return the any of the public IP of the load balancer. 

How to check the IP of load balancer:
  # nslookup <dns_endpoint>

In general, 'A' record hotha hai in name server record which resolves domain name to IP. Yaha tak good na, why we use Route 53 hosted
zone and records. 

Summary of step 1:
------------------
Service: Route 53
Steps:
  - Create a hosted zone for your domain name and add the name servers to the registrar where you bought the domain name. 
  - Create an 'A' alias record that points your sub-domain to a AWS resource.
Achieved:
  - Got the public IP of our Application Load Balancer.

Step 2:
+++++++

Now, browser knows the IP of our load balancer. Browser sends a http request to the load balancer. http request matlab by default port 
80 of the load balancer pe aayega request. Now, think of load balancer as a hotel that we went for big bash. Theek hai. Kya hotha, many
auditoriums aur party halls hotha aur bas ek yah dho front gate hotha. Tho watchman at the front gate has a sheet who checks joh aaya 
vus se pooche ki kiske liye aaya amazon party then go to auditorium number 6. 

Same hotha hai listener, rules and security groups. Watchman are listeners. Rules are sheets where entries are done i.e. kiske liye aaya
auditoriums are TG kaha jaana hai.

So, in our case watchman is port 80 which we dont want tho koi vus gate se aaya tho batha dena bhai go to gate no 2. 1 se jaana mana hai.
then they will redirected to https i.e. gate 2. vaha aaya aur hamara book mein 2 rules hai bas. Static ke liye aaya then go to auditorium 
static ( target group static ) yah nahi kuch bhi aur khane ke liye aaya go to auditorium 1 ( target group application. )

Aur gate 2 pe aane se ek sundhar se ladki welcome karthi hai aur poochthi hai kuch info like insta id ( uff aaj kal following na kuch 
zyada hi ho raha hai ) aur ek red band haath pe laga deti. This is our ACM which is generally used for security purposes par vutna kyu 
jan na hai. Patha hai na agar zyada janna hai vinnybsrinvasa. Here, we create an ACM with our domain name and validate it using DNS or email. 
Yeh tho patha hi haina. 

Ab yaha watchman also should have some criteria to let someone in, our security group. Load balancer ka security group mein allow karna
hai all traffic on listener ports. Matlab log hamari hi gao se aa saktha hai hotel ko, US se bhi aa saktha yah samsung se bhi, you don't 
know kadha so allow all traffic on the load balancer. Theek hai. 

Haa, health checks bhi tho hai. Watchman ke pass na walkie talkie hotha hai aur har baar watchman at the entrance of each auditorium
bas baath kartha rehtha hai to know that watchman at the entrance of auditorium so nahi rahe agar so jay tho vus target group ka requests
watchman deny karega with 5** request code i.e. 503, 504 kuch aisa. 

Jaisa walkie talkie mein specific phone numbers hotha hamara TG mein health checks ka specific paths hoga. Health check set karna
 hai tumko application pe / and static target group pe /static/css/home.css

Summary of step 2:
------------------
Services: ALB, Target groups, ACM, Security groups. 
Steps: 
  - Create two target groups, one for application on port 5000 and one for static on port 80
  - Create an ACM for your domain with DNS validation and add the records in your route 53 and wait..... till the cert is issued. 
  - Create a security group  by allow all http and https traffic for everyone.
  - Create an internet-facing load balancers i.e. in public subnets and attach the sg that you created.
    - Once LB is ready, add a listener on port 443 and associate our ACM.
    - Listener 1: Port 80. Do nothing only redirect to port 443
    - Listener 2: Port 443. Two things bro.
      - URL has static/* go to static TG
      - or else go the application TG 
Achieved:
  - The request will be routed to the specific TG. 

Step 3:
+++++++

Ab chali gayi tum uber cab pe marathahalli se auditorium 1 ( application TG ) tak with bulusu aur voh. Ab individual auditorium have 
their own architecture and interior. Vaise hi 

 Auditorium 2 ( static TG ): 
 --------------------------
 install nginx in ubuntu instance 
    # sudo apt-get update
    # sudo apt-get install nginx 
    # Somehow magically copy the static directory to /var/www/html
    # sudo chown -R www-data /var/www/html/
    # sudo systemctl start nginx.service
    # sudo systemctl enable nginx.service
    # to verify whether service is running or not run the below commands any one of them
    # netstat -ntlp 
    # ps aux | grep nginx
    # systemctl status nginx.service 

Ab, yaha question aayega where do i place this instance, public subnet or private. Bas common sense sa sawal hai, what do you want to expose
watchman se tight security vala entry yah shakthiman jaisa direct fly hoke auditorium mein entry. Pehla vala sahi laga na, that's why
only expose internet traffic to the load balancer i.e. only place load balancer in public subnets. aur bakhi sab joh LB ke peeche aayega 
voh private subnets, let LB send them to us. 

Now, create another Security group for this instances. what all to allow bas kuch nahi joh watchman se aaye yah andhar hi andhar koi 
ghoom raha hai tho vuska aane dhe. i.e. port 80 traffic within the VPC CIDR. 

Auditorium 1( application TG ):
------------------------------
Hamara application chal raha hai. itni baar deploy kiya abhi tak tho kya karna hai patha chal gaya hoga. phir bhi 
 you will get a zip file and follow the below steps:
  1. unzip the zip file. Install unzip. 
  2. Read README.md and follow the steps.
  3. run our application using nohup. 

Now, try to place this in ASG so that agar zyada log aa gaye amazon se auditorium ko tho dho theen auditorium mila de. So, put this in
ASG with a customized AMI and the user-data and also provide some IAM role. 

Ab isko bhi same principal for security group, allow either traffic from watchman i.e. port 5000 traffic from SG of LB or CIDR of VPC 

Summary of Step 3:
------------------

Services: EC2, ASG, IAM, 
Steps: 
  - Create two Security groups for two TG's. 
  - Create a single EC2 for static TG. if you want, you can create a ASG with an AMI as well. No worries. 
  - Create an IAM role with S3 full access ( Vutna nahi chahiye, par de dena, dene se koi kam nahi ho jaatha na )
  - Create an ASG for our application.
Achieved: 
  - Highly fault tolerant application and static content serving instances. 


Step 4:
++++++

Ab aaya hamara database. Database maan lo hamara kitchen in the auditorium jaha special receipe se food bane. Thodi tum sab ko dikathe 
ho special receipe aur in sab ko voh bahut protected hothe hai same goes to our DB. You know kitchen ke andhar bas tumhare log hi hoga so 
place them in private subnet with only internal traffic allowed on port 3306. Ho gaya database. 

Ab get this database endpoint and change it in our db.properties of our application. 

Jab database ban gaya tho pehla cheez ek database banao aur ek user banao who has full access to the db ( not recommended par show your courtesy 
kindness). Aur tables bhi bana dena. Better create a file with all the commands that we get executed. 

Ab yeh food tho andhar hai tho kaisa access kare, get inside the VPC using bastion host and install mysql and run the commands. Theek hai

Summar of step 4:
----------------

Services: RDS, SG
Steps:
  - Create a security group with allowing only traffic on port 3306 from VPC CIDR or ( Application SG and Bastion host SG)
  - Create an MySQL RDS instance in private subnets. 
Achieved:
  - Working RDS instance with an endpoint 

Step 5:

S3 yeh kal batavunga. Abhi thoda kaam hai. 


Yeh sab padne ke baad yeh mat bolna ki hum bakchod hi sahi hai itna kyu likha karke. Huh. Likhne ke liye tareef mat kiya karo theek hai 
par aisa statements mat diya karo. 

Okay. is ke bahar kuch doubt hai tho mein bolunga after tomorrow. 





  